In the previous lesson,
you saw how we can do sampling distributions and
bootstrapping to understand the values of a statistic that are possible.
It turns out that we can use these sampling distributions
to understand the most likely values for a parameter as well.
In the real world,
we don't usually know the value of a parameter as our populations of
interest tend to be things like everyone in the world or all the past,
present, and future transactions of a company.
We just don't have all the information we might like to about these populations.
So now, the question is,
how do we use what we do know about sampling distributions to infer
something about these parameters for these large populations?
And here is where the interesting part starts.
Imagine this distribution here is the sampling distribution for some statistic,
any statistic of interest.
We can actually use this sampling distribution
to build a confidence interval for our parameter of interest.
If we want a 95 percent confidence interval,
we could cut off two and a half percent from
here and another two and a half percent from up here.
These values would then give the range where we believe the parameter would be,
with 95 percent confidence.
If alternatively, we wanted a 99 percent confidence interval,
we would cut off a half a percent from each side,
and these values would then give the range where we
believe the parameter to be with 99 percent confidence.